RFC 8: The Quilt Ethos (#8)
QuiltMC/rfcs: 0008-quilt-ethos.md

# Summary

Quilt has a set of Community Guidelines and Governance RFCs. These provide a set of rules, expectations and guidance on what and how certain aspects of the project should be managed. After some reflection, it seems that a set of "Values" had not been define; the aim of this document is to set these values.

# Motivation

> This can be seen as a derivate or inspiration from the Python Projects [PEP20](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/). I (ToffeeMax) have found this document useful when trying to both write better code using Python and as a general set of development principles. PEP20 could partially be seen as non-serious, however it is referenced within Python frequently. 

Reviewer: This document feels like it's having a bit of an identity crisis. PEP 20 is about project (and by extension Python programmers) goals, and this document kinda tries to roll project and community principles into one.

Author: I for sure agree with you here - I have pushed some changes and removed the "community principles" (mostly)

The can be refered back to as more of a "Why" a decision was made - instead of the rigid proccess of HOW that other RFCs intend.

# Explanation

The proposed to aphorisms are:

> 1. Do not let perfect be the enemy of actually shipping an idea to usage.

Reviewer: Prudency, but not perfectionism. A bikeshed never built is just as effective as one that is broken.

> 1. Do not let perfect be the enemy of actually shipping an idea to usage.

Author: So you are proposing that actually Perfect should be the goal -- but within a limit?

2. Modular, Simple and Flexible should be the goal of all design.
3. Collaborate to Innovate
4. Keep disagreements internal -- always.
5. Consulting with many voices is good, but at some point you have to make a decision.  

> 6. All players deserve a chance to explain themselves and have actions against them be reviewed by someone not involved originally.

Reviewer: The length and wordiness of this line doesn't feel in place with the rest of them.

Author: Lasted Commit should make this better (I hope)

> 7. Tiny Potato got old -- time to find something new

Reviewer: This feels almost like it's trying to have the vibe of the Zen's last line, but it's missing the substance of it

# Drawbacks

It could be used in future as a "hill to die on" and be constantly refered back to in reference to why a certiain decision has been made or those seeking to question a decision as not being inline with the project

# Rationale and Alternatives

## Alternatives
- This could be included in the contributing.md or elsewhere in another document

> - Splitting into two types, one for community and one for development could be wise; however it should be in the same document.

Author: This has been resolved via the publishing of "community guidelines"

# Summary

Quilt has a set of Community Guidelines and Governance RFCs. These provide a set of rules, expectations and guidance on what and how certain aspects of the project should be managed. After some reflection, it seems that a set of "Values" had not been define; the aim of this document is to set these values.

# Motivation

This can be seen as a derivate or inspiration from the Python Projects [PEP20](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/). I (ToffeeMax) have found this document useful when trying to both write better code using Python and as a general set of development principles. PEP20 could partially be seen as non-serious, however it is referenced within Python frequently. 

> The can be refered back to as more of a "Why" a decision was made - instead of the rigid proccess of HOW that other RFCs intend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be referred back to as more of "Why" a decision was made - instead of the rigid process of "How", that other RFCs intend.
```

# Explanation

We will sometimes get things wrong, but:
Do not let perfect be the enemy of actually shipping an idea.

> Modular, Simple and Flexible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modular, Simple, and Flexible.
```
Oxford comma good and best

Made by Anyone;
Made for Anyone.
This project breaths on collaboration.
Not sure whether something will work? Try it. 

> Other will help shape it to something amazing.

Reviewer 3: Probably meant "Others" here. It might be less "us vs. them" to say "Collaboration will shape it into something amazing" instead.

Spread out power and responsibilty; it is a heavy burden to walk alone.

> Tiny Potato got old; find an new hill to march apon. I hear a pinapple is good?

Reviewer 3: "Pineapple", I believe

I hear a pineapple is good?

# Drawbacks

> It could be used in future as a "hill to die on" and be constantly refered back to in reference to why a certiain decision has been made or those seeking to question a decision as not being inline with the project

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It could be used in future as a "hill to die on" and be constantly referred back to in reference to why a certain decision has been made or those seeking to question a decision as not being inline with the project
```

Typos

# Rationale and Alternatives

## Alternatives
- This could be included in the contributing.md or elsewhere in another document
- Splitting into two types, one for community and one for development could be wise; however it should be in the same document.

# Prior Art

This can be seen as a derivate or inspiration from the Python Project's [PEP20](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/).

# Unresolved Questions

- Does this need to exist?
- Do we need more development focused ethos instead of community?

> - Is this enforaceable or should it be included elsewhere?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Is this enforceable or should it be included elsewhere?
```
